Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Programing language is instructing for computer to understand between human vs softwere for example: Python, Ruby, Java, JavaScript, C, C++ etc.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.The Java Development Kit.




What is IDE?
A.Integrated development environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.BlueJ.
  JDeveloper.
  JCreator.
  DrJava.
  JGrasp.
  IntelliJ.
  Eclipse.


Explain the entire java life cycle.
1. Writing Code
3. Compiling
4. Bytecode
5. Running
6. Execution
7. Output
8. Termination


what is class?
A. Class is a blueprint or a template for creating objects.



What is object?
A. In JAVA object is an instance created from a class. It represents a specific item or concept
     with characteristics (attributes) and behaviors (methods) defined by the class



What is the entry point of an application?
A. The entry point of an application in Java is the main method. This is where the program begins its execution.


Why main is static?
A. .The main method in Java is declared as static because it needs to be accessible without
     creating an instance of the class.



Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. The object class


What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path variable is used in reference to OS environment while classpath is specifically used for JAVA environment
    to locate classes & other resources required by JAVA applications.




What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. bstract classes allow constructors & can have concrete methods but interface cannot.
      Interface supports multiple inheritance.



Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No you cannot. You use it by using the word 'implement' such as "class MyClass implements MyInterface"
   Access specifier are keywords that determine the visibility or accessibility of classes, fields, methods, etc.
   such as public, protected, default, & private


what is Access Specifier?
A.


What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP is object oriented programming. OOP uses objects in JAVA code which instantiates java classes.
   There are four ways by which OOPs are used: Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, & Abstraction
    Encapsulation ensures that only the class itself can access and modify the data.
    Inheritance allows you to create a new class that is based on an existing class. Parent-child classesw.
    Polymorphism allows you to write code that can work with different types of objects using the
    same method or function.






What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









